Document Database Guidance
==========================
DocumentDB or MongoDB
---------------------

Azure offers DocumentDB, a native document database engine as-a-service. The purpose of this document is to help guide you toward a decision between the two although, ultimately, this is *only guidance* - you'll need to make the call.

**Note: This guidance is still under development**

###Questions to think about:

 - **Are you ok with managing the database engine, or are you looking specifically for a service-based database engine?** Database engine management/monitoring/support is not something to be taken lightly.

    While MongoDB is supported by 3rd-party hosters such as MongoLab, there are going to be limits to capabilities and storage limits which would not be limited in your own hosted MongoDB deployment.

    DocumentDB is built specifically to be a managed database engine.

 - **Is your solution cloud-only or hybrid?** If your app will live solely in Azure, DocumentDB is a viable option for you, especially if you're looking for a managed service. Today, DocumentDB is available in five regions, and this will expand.

    If you're building a hybrid application that requires both in-the-cloud and on-premises database footprints, and you need the same engine running both in Azure and on-prem, then you'll want to focus on a MongoDB deployment. Today, DocumentDB is an Azure-only offering.

- **Do you have an existing MongoDB deployment?** If your application is already using MongoDB, you'll have a smooth transition to Azure, in that MongoDB clusters are deployable to Azure in the same way you'd deploy one on-premises.

   A more important question is whether you're using MongoDB-specific features. If your app is just using core CRUD operations, and not using features specific to, say, Aggregation Framework, you might find it straightforward to migrate your data to DocumentDB, and letting you shift to a service-based document engine, rather than a VM-based engine.

- **Do you have specific performance targets?** Performance requirements can lead to very specific Virtual Machine specs and Storage specs, to achieve a given performance target (typically using high-performance VMs optimized for attached durable SSD storage). By contrast, DocumentDB manages performance by with selectable (and changeable) performance tiers per partition. From purely a scale perspective, DocumentDB provides a straightforward scale model, which may be controlled either through the portal or programmatically (including command-line script options).

   Typically, a MongoDB node, to handle more transactions, would first be scaled *up* in hardware size and disk performance, with eventual scale *out* when individual node size limits are reached. With DocumentDB, scale *up* is also the first approach, by choosing one of the three available Request Unit (RU) tiers, which range from 250 to 2500 RU/sec. Once this is exceeded, the model is to scale *out* with additional partitions, and then shard data across the partitions. Sharding today is automatically handled in DocumentDB's .NET driver.